# Final-Project-EECE2140

Summary:
This program replicates a sudoku game. This game consists of a 9 × 9 grid with numbers appearing in some squares. The object of the puzzle is to fill the remaining squares, using all the numbers 1–9 exactly once in each row, column, and the nine 3 × 3 subgrids. This program will be able to generate a random sudoku board that has only one solution, solve the sudoku, and allow the user to be able to play the game through the terminal. It is able to take in any sudoku position and solve it, or create a solution for a randomly generated sudoku that the user is trying to solve. It also is able to automatically detect obvious mistakes and guide the user to the solution. This version uses a 2d array that is 9 x 9 in order to replicate the 9 x 9 grid. The user could also use this program to test and experiment with different sudoku boards and make sure they have the correct amount of solutions or is solvable.

Overview of the code:
The program is completed in one class. There are several methods that assist in the final design, and some extra that gives insight into the sudoku board but are otherwise unused. They are as follows. The initialization method allows the user to input a specific sudoku board or just have it automatically initialized as empty. The board is an attribute made of a 9x9 array. 0s in the array are empty squares where new numbers can be added. We have an unused method, make_board_empty, which automatically clears the board if you want to generate or input a second array. The place method will place a number at the given position on the board.
Similarly, the remove method sets a number at the given position to 0, basically deleting it. print_board will display the panel on the terminal or print it to a separate file if desired. is_empty is a helper method that is used to detect if a square has a 0 or is empty in it and a number can be placed onto that square. is_valid_move checks if placing a number on a certain square is allowed. This means that there is no same number anywhere in the row, column, or 3 x 3 subgrid. is_board_solved checks to see if there are no empty squares in the board meaning that the sudoku has been solved. Similarly, numbers_count checks how many numbers there are overall and are currently unused. Generate board will create a random board with only one solution. Solutions count will count the number of solutions there are for the current board, and solve will print all the solutions for the current board. Finally, start will create a new sudoku and allow the user to solve it through the terminal. 

Instructions for use:
If you want to just play sudoku through the program, you are able to just run the code (assuming you have the libraries installed) and start playing. The terminal will prompt inputs and explain what to do. This occurs because running the code will execute MySudoku = Sudoku() and MySudoku.start() to allow for terminal interaction. If you want to use the specific methods in the code, create a new Sudoku() object and apply methods to this object. For example, if you want to see that a specific Sudoku() has only one solution you are able to initialize the new Sudoku() with a 9x9 array of the specific Sudoku you had in mind. Then you can apply the solutions count method to this sudoku by doing sudoku.solutions_count() and it will return the number of solutions. To see this through the terminal, you can print it out. Similarly, this can be done for all the methods in the Sudoku class. 

Suggested Future Directions:
A lot of things can be improved in this program. Immediately the interactive terminal game does not work extremely well, as it does not crosscheck your inputs with the actual solution. Some legal moves can lead you into a trap where the game becomes unsolvable. Additionally, the print is really ugly and uses a shortcut method through numpy. One could improve the graphics in the terminal or use pygame to implement higher quality graphics. Additionally, the generator is unable to take in a partial solution and create a one solution puzzle out of it due to how the generator is set up. One would also be able to support multiple sized sudokus or add a difficulty generator.
